.\" $Id: xclip.man,v 1.13 2001/09/19 11:44:13 kims Exp $
.\"
.\" xclip.man - xclip manpage
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Kim Saunders
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.\"
.TH XCLIP 1 
.SH NAME
xclip \- command line interface to X selections (clipboard)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xclip
[OPTION] [FILE]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads text from standard in, or from one or more files, and makes it available as an X selection for pasting into X applications. Prints current X selection to standard out.
.TP 8
.B \-i, -in \fIin mode\fB
read text into X selection from standard input or files (default).
.TP 8
.B \-o, -out \fIout mode\fB
prints the selection to standard out (generally for piping to a file or program).
.TP 8
.B \-f, -filter \fIfilter\fB
when xclip is invoked in the in mode with output level set to silent (the defaults), the filter option will cause xclip to print the text piped to standard in back to standard out unmodified.
.TP 8
.B \-l, -loops \fInumber of loops\fB
number of X selection requests (pastes into X applications) to wait for before exiting. The default value of 0 causes xclip to wait for an unlimited number or requests until another application (or invocation of xclip) takes ownership of the selection.
.TP 8
.B \-d, -display \fIX11 display\fB
X display to use (e.g. "localhost:0"). Defaults to the value in DISPLAY.
.TP 8
.B \-h, -help \fIoption summary\fB
show quick summary of options.
.TP 8
.B \-selection \fIselection to access\fB
Specify which X selection to use. Options are "primary" to use XA_PRIMARY (default), "secondary" for XA_SECONDARY and "clipboard" for XA_CLIPBOARD. Note that only the first letter of the argument is important, so "p", "sec", "cilp", etc. will all have the desired effect.
.TP 8
.B \-version \fIversion and copyright information\fB
show version information.
.TP 8
.B \-silent \fIsilent output, fork into background\fB
forks into the background to wait for requests, no informational output, errors only (default).
.TP 8
.B \-quiet \fIquiet output\fB
show what's happeing on the terminal, instead of hiding in the background.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose \fIverbose output\fB
provide a running commentary of what xclip is doing.

.PP
xclip reads text from standard in or files and makes it available to other X applications for pasting as an X selection
(traditionally with the middle mouse button). It was designed to allow intergration between the output of command
line applications and X applications.

The default action is to silently wait in the background for X selection requests (pastes) until another X application
places data in the clipboard, at which point xclip exits silently. You can use the
.B
--verbose
option to see if and when xclip actually recieves selection requests from other X applications.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
I hate man pages without examples!

.B
uptime | xclip
.PP
Put your uptime in the X selection. Then middle click in an X application to paste.

.B xclip -loops 10 -verbose /etc/passwd
.PP
Exit after /etc/passwd has been pasted 10 times. Show how many selection requests (pastes) have been processed.

.B xclip -o > helloworld.c
.PP
Put the contents of the selection into a file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.SM DISPLAY
X display to use if none is specified with the
.B
-display
option.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report any bugs, problems, queries, experiences, etc. directly to the author.

.SH AUTHOR
Kim Saunders <kim.saunders@mercuryit.com.au>
.br
